## Log
- I tried running experiments for about 20 hours, but I have not been able to get a pulse yet. My seed file includes a connection from SW2 to the pin I am listening on, so I can press it and verify that the firmware is working correctly. I also inspected some of the mutated seeds using the layout viewer and it appears that new connections are successfully being made to the route connected to the pin. I also greatly unrestrained the search space to allow for the logic tiles span to be modifiable, as the default one doesn't really include many. I have a theory that having so many connections makes the output stay at a 1 and I'm going to try to change the configuration to make less. It's also possible that we just need more time. It would be helpful to know how the seed files for the 1k device were created, they have pretty sophisticated connections.
- Working on usbip manager
	- Removed support for working with multiple buses for a single device - this only mattered for usb hubs and added complication 
	- Switched from flask to blacksheep. I want to use sever-sent-events for some things, you can do this using flask but not out of the box and it requires setting up a few non pip things. 
	- Changed firmware flashing endpoints to use server side events and give a notification when flashing is done
	- Added system for detecting device disconnects when being exported with usbip
	- Unbind managed devices from usbip on exit
## Next
- Find a middle ground for columns
- Restrain to fewer logic tiles

[[work_log_jackson/2025-10-10|prev]] [[work_log_jackson/2025-10-14|next]]
