## Log
- Got worker deployment working with k3s
	- Still need to resolve some things:
		- Currently using network=host since udev events does kernel -> user communication through a socket. Seems like there is a workaround, have not tried it yet
		- Need to determine better way of obtaining worker name. Currently using $HOSTNAME, planning to switch to pod id.
		- Need to figure out a better way to pass configuration around. 
			- Main issue is passing db connection string. Best case scenario is that I can figure out a postgres configuration that only requires user/dbname for connections in the network overlay. I'd feel fine putting the user/dbname in a config. If this is not the case, I have yet to find a good way to pass it as an environment variable. k8s does not support using env variables as configuration values. The standard solution is that Helm enables this functionality, but I'm trying to avoid it for now. Don't really need it for anything else and it adds so much complexity. Using specific k8s secret stores carries the same issue, as the connection string has to be specified in the yml. Perhaps the best option is making a generator for the yml file?

	- It doesn't seem like multiarch images work nicely. If I'm deploying to pods with different architectures, all the pods still pull the same image. I've been able to solve this by creating two separate deployments with architecture selectors, but it's a lot of duplicated text.
## Next
- [ ]

[[work_log_jackson/2025-12-23|prev]] [[work_log_jackson/2025-12-25|next]]
