## Log
- I was able to get gpio reading consistently working
	- I was using the pin definitions from [here](https://github.com/tinyvision-ai-inc/pico-ice-sdk/blob/pico2-ice_develop/include/boards/ice40up5k.h), which are included in pico2ice.h, but I think these are specific to pico-ice instead?
	- I'm not quite sure why I was able to blink an led using the rp before than. I had an makefile issue and I suspect I might have had a different configuration loaded on the ice40 than I thought?
- PIO
	- [pio emulator](https://rp2040pio-docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/pio-programs.html), might be useful later
	- Overview:
		- Two shift registers, one intended for reading input and one intended for writing output
		- Two scratch registers, for other operations
		- Very limited instruction set
	- I think its possible to use PIO to count pin changes. 
		- We can load a 1 into the output shift register and shift left every time an signal edge is detected, then output a value when the register becomes 0 and repeat the process. This effectively condenses 32 pulses into a single interrupt. 
		- The JMP instruction has an option to decrement the scratch register after the JMP takes place. We can use this to decrement a register each time a signal edge is detected. We can condense signals further than 32 times using this, but it is probably slower. 
	- The pio state machines run off the system clock (150MHz) but can be configured to run slower
		- We should have no problem running our old experiments
## Next
- [ ]

[[work_log_jackson/2025-10-04|prev]] [[work_log_jackson/2025-10-06|next]]
