## Log
- Looking back, the current behavior for handling expired reservations should deal with the unexpected disconnect issue  from yesterday. I need to finish testing the client before I can verify this though.
- Fixed client request issue
- Updated worker to use async flask package
- Fixed some control endpoints
- Basic cli is now working as intended!
- Cli stops server
- Too many bug fixes to list!
- Cli now has the same functionality of the pre-database version 
- Fixed cli firmware flashing
## Next
- Testing
	- Client endpoints outside of cli
	- usbip unexpected disconnect behavior
- Fixes
	- Prevent device events during worker exit proc
	- Usbip bind disconnection detection sometimes has a false positive, but this is safeguarded by checking remote usbip availability. This will fall through if a client is connected.
- Features
	- Sigint cli handling 
	- Update docs
	- Detect stalled flashing_default state
	- Control web debug interface
	
- Get feedback tomorrow on supporting different device types. I know at some point someone was interested in EPC5 boards, not sure if that is still ongoing. It should be pretty easy to add support for different devices.  
	- That being said, adding icesticks would be more difficult. This is because of the nature of having to be paired with an arduino. It could be done, but it would be really inconvenient to manage, since we would need to manually configure icestick-arduino pairs. With the picoice configuration it's literally just plug in a new device. 
- Find someone to demo with

[[work_log_jackson/2025-11-11|prev]] [[work_log_jackson/2025-11-13|next]]
