## Log
- After spending time reading icestorm docs to create the seed circuits, I am very convinced in addition to it being possible to evolve multiple circuits on the same board, I don't think it would be nearly as challenging as it seems.
	- First, we would have to split the board into different sets of tiles, maintaining a 1 tile buffer around
	- We use this buffer to connect each set of logic tiles to a different pin. This certainly would be annoying to hand route, but its not necessarily difficult.
	- The key here is to change the circuit representation of the routing bits. Instead of using bitstrings, we enumerate the possible span connections for each group of routing configuration bits. The other bits can still be treated as bitstrings. This allows us to easily prevent wire connections from happening by just removing that option. For each set of logic tiles that we are evolving on, we can go through the enumeration of span tile connection options. If the tile connection is related to a global net or a tile outside of the set, we can just remove it.
- Exploring icestorm
	- icebox.iceconfig is main important object
	- set up with .setup_empy_u4k
	- can then use .tile_db to get config bit mapping
	- Approach
		- identify routing bits
		- create mapping of span name to tile offset, glb net identifier 
			- I believe we only have to deal with neigh/global options, as the sp4/12 are for logic blocks cells instead of tiles
			- neigh nets are just between the 8 surrounding tiles
			- global is just all disabled
		- iterate through tiledb entries, whitelisting span options that are in set of logic tiles
		- perform separate mutation on routing by choosing random span then writing routing bits
	- Faster approach!!
		- We don't need to care about removing neigh nets, we can just separate the evolution spaces so that they are not neighbors and disable spans (need to see how possible this part is)
		- It appears that there are only about 16 bits that contain potential global routing configurations. Can just completely disable this rather than selectively removing options
		- Actual requirements:
			- Create bitmask as opposed to rows/column mutation, identify and remove global network bits
			- Prevent specific tiles from mutation
			- Goal is just to first be able to produce random circuits disconnected from each other
## Next
- [ ]

[[work_log_jackson/2026-02-13|prev]] [[work_log_jackson/2026-02-17|next]]
