## Log
- Made pyproject to use with icestorm.icebox to resolve messy imports and setup
- Refactored span routing function, slightly faster and produces more optimal routes
- Removed a few instances of working too closely with config bits instead of using config objects from genome
- Added some additional docs
- pyproject for routing stuff. Still don't really have an end plan for how to integrate the routing stuff.
	- Bitstreamevo currently just clones icestorm (I think?), should probably replace with submodules. Should be able to just drop the current pyproject in and change the location. 
## Next
- Determine whether the spans on the ram/ipcon tiles can be used without having to enable to entire tile
- Clean up a few remaining raw bit manipulation things in router
- Remove hardcoded lutff0/out connection
	- Need to add to genome config to avoid disconnecting the /out -> local -> span connection, not sure the best way to do it. Probably return a filter function during routing to use with the user defined CF
- Move everything in routing repo to bitstreamevo
- Old stuff
	- Stop procrastinating on tests
	- Add a limit to how many times a device can reboot without receiving any results. Currently if a device reboots but an issue persists somehow, it will get stuck in a loop
	- Handle external reservation ends gracefully like how failed devices are
	- Dynamic ip, I think with docker its probably just fine to use hostname -I but I need to add a note in the readme to make it clear how to handle when it fails
	- Add reboot event
	- Invalidate generation results from device after reboot? This is really inefficient but I don't see a way to guarantee issues don't happen without the message system overhaul
	- Considering moving to using exceptions
		- I've been doing a lot of stuff more c-style around this, since so much can go wrong it seems much cleaner to use if (stmt) rather than having try:except around every line. It's working well since I am aware of this, but I recognize that this not standard for python. 

[[work_log_jackson/2026-04-25|prev]] [[work_log_jackson/2026-04-27|next]]
