## Log
- Pin 9 and 21 work
- Bitstreamevolution runs while placing multiple circuits on the asc file and does not crash, but io tile connections are not possible yet
- Competed routing for io pins to logic tile connections, painfully by hand. I realized I could move one of the connections to tnl instead of top for 30x3 circuits instead. As far as I'm aware this should be enough to test the setup and get a pulse, I'm not sure how well it will work considering the circuit size.
	- As a side note it appears that logic tiles can access io tile inputs regardless of how the io tile itself is configured through the neigh nets. I don't know what this means in practice since the seed io tiles are not configured to anything, so the nets are essentially undefined. It probably would be a good idea to restrict access to logic tiles next to io tiles in the future to be completely sure that no outside signals are being received.
- Able to get pulses on pin 9, don't seem to be able to get any on 21. The configuration is slightly different for the two pins but that was how nextpnr originally routed it and seemed to work with a clock circuit. Going to generate a more minimal connection and see if the configuration is the same.
- Seems to be working! While there is an evaluation difference when using the same bitstream in two different locations, it is only about 10% so far and I have not yet found a genome that only gives pulses on one pin. I don't expect to actually make any evolutionary progress yet, since this is a 30x3 logic tile circuit using only one logic cell per tile (not even 12 full logic tiles worth of logic cells). That being said, this shows that the concept itself works.
- Next thing to do is increase the number of logic cells available for evolution. Not sure if I know enough about the representation to do this, will probably have to talk with Thomas. Briefly tried ai for this but failed pretty badly. My hope is that these extra cells will be enough to actually evolve something.
- [ ] Eventually want to automate pin and tile routing. While I didn't use this on the one I did by hand, I plan on chaining neigh nets together so that I don't have to deal with spans as they are more complex. End goal is be able to define a circuit size and neigh output location, then list circuit locations and pin then have it automatically routed to the circuit areas. I have a good idea of how to do most of this and I am confident that I can use one of the existing classes in icebox to make it a lot easier to implement. The one stage that I have not figured out yet is how to configure the io tiles. There's less documentation on what the different pin modes accomplish. My current method would be to set up the tiles using yosys/nextpnr then wipe all the other unneeded tiles. Afterwards the tiles can be inspected to figure out which dout net is being used. This is incredibly hacky but I think it is the most straightforward way.
## Next
- Fix device amount event formatting, probably using pre batch protocol
- Make batchclient gracefully handle devices that are rebooting by not sending any new bitstreams
- Review stability changes, ensure that client has failsafe for detecting worker timeouts instead of only relying on control notification
- Fix db connection in workflow tests
- Dynamic worker ip
- Update readme with other changes

[[work_log_jackson/2026-03-13|prev]] [[work_log_jackson/2026-03-15|next]]
