## Log
- Updated bitstreamevolution fork to use quick evaluation method (distribute evenly across devices)
- PulseCountState stability
	- Having issues where device sometimes goes into an unresponsive state ~25 evaluations
- todo list
	- Graceful shutdowns 
		- Want to implement some addition tracking stuff before starting this. Plan is to wait until all reservations are finished before exiting 
		- This will allow us to do rolling updates to the workers without interrupting ongoing experiments
		- Need to add some sort of reconnect behavior for the control server, but should be able to do this too
	- Additional metadata/versioning tracking on workers
		- Want to keep track of which kind of reservations can be made on each worker, which allows workers to exist of different versions
		- Want to allow for some statistic tracking on devices (reservation time, circuit uploads). Planning to put this on a separate database - current usage doesn't care at all about persistence, don't want to mix important stuff with it 
	- Separate client into another repo at some point?
		- Been contemplating this for a while. I'm not constantly changing interfaces anymore, so it doesn't make as much sense being in the same one as it used to. With the additional metadata tracking, it will not be necessary to use specific worker/client version pairs.
		- With usbip, both the worker and client shared many util functions, which is no longer the case. Worker and control still do, which is why I'm not thinking about splitting them too.
		- Main worry is that it will over complicate testing pipeline
			- Will reduce build time though!!
	- Optimize reservation locations
		- Try to reserve all to same worker, prioritize workers with low activity 
	- Improve test coverage 
- Resolved import spaghetti 
- Added usbipice version and available states to reserve worker attributes o database. 
- Graceful shutdown endpoint and trigger script for worker - stops any further reservations from happening, trigger script exits when there are no more active reservation. 
## Next
- [ ]

[[work_log_jackson/2026-01-01|prev]] [[work_log_jackson/2026-01-05|next]]
