## Log
- I extracted the pulse count firmware from one of the built images and I get the same zero pulse behavior. My suspicion is that something is going wrong with pio. This is because the varmax firmware seems to work and it does not use pio. In addition, at some point the actions images were working fine, but this was before using pio.
- Disabled buildcache and cloned entire repos, still not working
- Disabled cache on local build, having the issue now with local. Will have to look through dependencies for changes. Still sort of confused, others have been able to get it working recently so I'm surprised it seems to be an issue with the image itself. Perhaps having cloned one of the pico sdks before fixes it?
- Appears pico-ice-sdk update changed ice40 setup to be in khz instead of mhz, causing a clock speed of 48khz. 
	- Pinned pico-ice-sdk version, issue solved
- Fixed usage example in readme
- Added more details in some areas of install instructions
## Next
- icefarm setup stuff
	- Normal setup needs arm-none-eabi
	- Note that venv needs to be activate first
	- Make clients unreserve on others ints than sig
- Put tile next to genome and next to io pin, use global nets instead. This is sooo much easier than messing with the neigh net chain and will work across ram tiles
- Fix device amount event formatting, probably using pre batch protocol
- Make batchclient gracefully handle devices that are rebooting by not sending any new bitstreams
- Review stability changes, ensure that client has failsafe for detecting worker timeouts instead of only relying on control notification
- Fix db connection in workflow tests
- Dynamic worker ip


[[work_log_jackson/2026-03-16|prev]] [[work_log_jackson/2026-03-18|next]]
