## Log
- Made todo list
- Replaced circuitpop randominjection with equiv mixin
- Made diversity measure an interface (mostly to move stuff out of circuitpop)
- Made seed configurable
- Added get_routing_rows type of method to config, removed switches on routing types
- Added config parameter for chaosinjection
- Added mutation type as config parameter
- Circuit results reported in consistent serial ordering (not relevant for quick mode)
## Next
- ops
	- automate testing (with python3.8)
		- need to add itertools.batched I think
	- need to go back and update tests too
	- docker file partially outdated I think
- Investigate postgres triggers issues
	- Sometimes amount is sent sequentially for the same time rather than increasing
	- It appears that on rare occasion reservation end falsely triggers
- Graphing/logging
	- Log serial -> pulses in new log file (in case circuits are not evaluated consistently on same circuits)
	- Verify/fix graphs other than the main fitness/pulse generation one
	- Fix heatmap from doing strange thing
- GA
	- Get fitness/diversity proportional mutation/selection working
		- Planning on trying 1- instead of inverse
	- Continue to experiment with fitness functions
		- I think adding \*sum(pulses!=0) was a good addition. There's still a point where having no pulses is better than really high pulses, but I have not yet had circuits converge to this.
		- I think I'm going to try the variance approach again, this time increasing the acceptable range for circuits to differ
		- Another option is to use cubed error rather than square
		- Probably at some point should make separate fitness functions for different approaches instead of commenting out
		- Find elegant way to add additional chaosinjection params. Almost feel as through we should be using yaml instead of toml?
- iCEFARM
	- Add 'no assigned serial' evaluation to client, optimize assignments
	 - Configurable evaluation time
	 - Add a pulsecountteststate. This will have the same interface as the other one, but will return pulse counts based on summing bitstream or some other metric. Essentially will let us test bitstreamevolution with higher coverage than simhardwarecircuit allows.
- Seed file
	- Verify no logic/ram tile circuit is actually doing that. I suspect it is, but am having a really easy time getting pulses from randomizing the bitstream. I removed the unnecessary io tiles from this but I suspect there is still clock connection in the remaining tile

[[work_log_jackson/2026-02-04|prev]] [[work_log_jackson/2026-02-06|next]]
- [ ] 