## Log
- multi circuit stuff
	- Discussed with Thomas about the representation, it should work really well. Only issue is that the timing of logic blocks can be different in different areas, so different locations will evaluate slightly different. I don't know anything about chip fabrication but my assumption is that this will produce results similar to what happens when we use multiple fpags - if anything I would imagine the different fpgas would have more variation? Current goal is to modify pulsecount firmware on icefarm to be able to listen on multiple pins and confirm the ice/gpio pairs are correct. Not sure what this is going to look like for the varmax, as far as I know pio can't sample voltages.
	- It appears that the bank 0 pins correspond to the top logic tiles while the bank 1 is at near the bottom. The pins seem to be always placed in two clusters, but this might just be how nextpnr likes to route things - I don't really know how the io tiles work. At first glance it seems like two genomes will be easy while more will require manual routing of the io tile connections to the genome locations. I've currently selected ice21 and 27 as good candidates. 
	- ice21/gpio26 works!
	- I'm able to measure both pulses independently, but it seems that only one is counted when the firmware outputs on both pins.
		- Oops was using 25 instead of 27, firmware works fine
## Next
- Make batchclient gracefully handle devices that are rebooting by not sending any new bitstreams
- Review stability changes, ensure that client has failsafe for detecting worker timeouts instead of only relying on control notification
- Add serial configuration
- Fix db connection in workflow tests
- Dynamic worker ip
- Update readme with other changes
- Representation stuff with bitstreamevolution
	- Next step is to do the io tile routing. Realizing now I'm going to have to hand route it anyway since it needs to be accessible from the same relative net in both locations
	- For now I'll do this the hacky way on a separate branch since it involves changing the genome representation
	- Replace filebasedcircuit internals with direct representation numpy array
	- Replace mutate
	- Disable crossover for now?
	- Split circuits into pairs before evaluation, splice onto same circuit, evaluate file paths, inject results into circuit objects

[[work_log_jackson/2026-03-10|prev]] [[work_log_jackson/2026-03-12|next]]
