## Log
- Moved Batchclient to using utils.Queue, minor refactoring
- Updated bitstreamevo and tests to use newly modified icefarm client
- Evaluations received as failed when device is unreserved or fails during evaluation
	- Rebooting externally still does not work as expected. I could add this with the current batchclient design, but it would require a good amount of changes, since the devices only temporarily stop working the rejected batches would need to be queued again. Planning on just waiting for communication changes before doing this, since for the most part batchclient will be discarded once these are active I don't want to invest too much in it.
- Updated bitstreamevo to use new icefarm interface as a result of the bitstreamevo changes
- Updated tests in both bitstreamevo and icefarm to use new interface
## Next
- clear backlog!!
- Put tile next to genome and next to io pin, use global nets instead. This is sooo much easier than messing with the neigh net chain and will work across ram tiles
- Fix db connection in workflow tests
- Dynamic worker ip
- Stop procrastinating on tests
- Add a limit to how many times a device can reboot without receiving any results. Currently if a device reboots but an issue persists somehow, it will get stuck in a loop
- Handle external reservation ends gracefully like how failed devices are
- Dynamic ip, I think with docker its probably just fine to use hostname -I but I need to add a note in the readme to make it clear how to handle when it fails
- Add reboot event
- Invalidate generation results from device after reboot? This is really inefficient but I don't see a way to guarantee issues don't happen without the message system overhaul
- Considering moving to using exceptions
	- I've been doing a lot of stuff more c-style around this, since so much can go wrong it seems much cleaner to use if (stmt) rather than having try:except around every line. It's working well since I am aware of this, but I recognize that this not standard for python. 

[[work_log_jackson/2026-03-26|prev]] [[work_log_jackson/2026-03-30|next]]
