## Log
- Updated actions. Now using a dedicated development branch, images on dockerhub with {normal tag}-dev. Updated helm to be able to specify image
- Added shutdown script to helm configuration. When workers start shutting down, they notify clients (clients should reserve a new device if possible, but its not necessary), stop taking new reservations, and wait until all the current ones finish before exiting. 
	- Still need to fix an issue with the flask/socketio-server adapter to make this work with uvicorn
- Design planning for control web interface
	- Goal is to provide common debugging/management functionality without having knowledge of the system
	- Going to be very minimal. I suspect we will eventually make another system on top of iCEFARM, so this is not meant to be comprehensive 
	- Planning on including it in the current control module? I'm not yet sure how I want to build it. Right now I'm thinking of server side rendering with flask, but I need to explore more options as I'm quite unfamiliar with webdev. If it overwhelms the main control functionality I might move it.
	- View worker table
	- View device table joined with reservation status
	- View amount of available devices 
	- View devices on specific worker
	- View reserved device list by client id 
	- End reservations by device/client id
	- Extend reservations by device/client id
	- 'Delete' a device; removes from worker data structure and triggers device events for existing ports, has potential to fix a device in the broken state without having to physically unplug it
	- Restart a device? I'm not yet sure if this is something worth doing - would need to implement this functionally on the worker. The idea is to have to device switch to the state it is already in. The distinction from the delete option is that if the client is aware of it, it does not necessarily stop the clients usage. 
	- Restart a worker pod potentially? 
## Next
- Include worker name in heartbeat

[[work_log_jackson/2026-01-02|prev]] [[work_log_jackson/2026-01-04|next]]
