## Log
- Looked through icestorm docs for global networks. It appears that only the io tiles can drive global nets? I'm also a bit confused about how global these nets actually are.
	- Connection list in icebox_html is only for neighboring tiles, that's why not all tiles are listed for the global nets
- Only specific tiles can drive specific global networks, so I am a bit concerned that I might have to go back to the logic chaining method. It's not listed for the 5k chip but I assume it's listed in the chipdb.
- For driving io tiles, need to use fabout destination. 
-   x, y, glb net
- 6 0 6
    6 31 3
    12 0 5
    12 31 4
    13 0 0
    13 31 1
    19 0 7
    19 31 2
- Should be able to do this still, planning on using pins 25, 21, 11, 9 and glb 6, 5, 0, 7. I'll start with pins 21/9 and glb 6/7 though. 
- Planning on doing this by hand. I don't think too many configurations are required and this is way less repetitive than the logic method.
- todo
	- switch pin21 local connection to use glb 6
	- switch glb6 on io 16,0 to neigh logic
	- switch pin9 local connection to use glb 7
	- switch glb7 on io 19,0 to neigh logic
	- io 6,0 / pin 
- Unfortunately cannot directly get value from global net in io tiles. This means that for the pin io tiles, there needs to be an adjacent logic tile that forwards that glbnet value. This means having a logic cell configured to passthrough the connection. 
- Decided to go with automatic route since the net paths are longer so it requires looking through more combinations
- Able to produce routing paths for driving global network given adjacent logic cell net along with extra_bit parameters
- Able to produce routing paths to connect a logic tile to a global network and connect that to a neighboring io tiles pinout
- Failing to flash any of the generated bitstreams currently. Seems to be an issue with how I am using the iceconfig icestorm class rather than the routing method. I'm unable to flash a circuit without any modifications to it. Based on the icebox_explain output, it appears that the circuits are the same as all the others. However, I am aware that this does not catch all changes. 
- I'm guessing there is maybe an issue with the format? Not sure what to make of this, but good news is that its not the routing itself:
```
(.venv) heiljj@heiljj-ThinkPad-P1-Gen-5:~/ehw/routing$ icebox_diff ice27_only_no_logic_neigh.asc out_circuit.asc 
Reading file 'ice27_only_no_logic_neigh.asc'..
Reading file 'out_circuit.asc'..
(.venv) heiljj@heiljj-ThinkPad-P1-Gen-5:~/ehw/routing$ icepack ice27_only_no_logic_neigh.asc test1
(.venv) heiljj@heiljj-ThinkPad-P1-Gen-5:~/ehw/routing$ icepack out_circuit.asc test2
(.venv) heiljj@heiljj-ThinkPad-P1-Gen-5:~/ehw/routing$ diff test1 test2
Binary files test1 and test2 differ
(.venv) heiljj@heiljj-ThinkPad-P1-Gen-5:~/ehw/routing$ iceunpack test1 ice27
(.venv) heiljj@heiljj-ThinkPad-P1-Gen-5:~/ehw/routing$ iceunpack test2 outc
(.venv) heiljj@heiljj-ThinkPad-P1-Gen-5:~/ehw/routing$ icebox_diff ice27 outc
Reading file 'ice27'..
Reading file 'outc'..
(.venv) heiljj@heiljj-ThinkPad-P1-Gen-5:~/ehw/routing$ diff ice27 outc
(.venv) heiljj@heiljj-ThinkPad-P1-Gen-5:~/ehw/routing$ diff ice27 outc
(.venv) heiljj@heiljj-ThinkPad-P1-Gen-5:~/ehw/routing$ diff ice27 outc
(.venv) heiljj@heiljj-ThinkPad-P1-Gen-5:~/ehw/routing$ icepack ice27 test3
(.venv) heiljj@heiljj-ThinkPad-P1-Gen-5:~/ehw/routing$ icepack outc test4
(.venv) heiljj@heiljj-ThinkPad-P1-Gen-5:~/ehw/routing$ diff test3 test4
(.venv) heiljj@heiljj-ThinkPad-P1-Gen-5:~/ehw/routing$ 
```
- The resulting circuit seems to be working fine.
- The only difference between the original and repacked circuit seem to be the existence of new ram_data tiles. Not sure what these are, but they do not appear in the other circuit that works fine. Inspecting iceconfig, this seems to only be present in already written files. I suspect this is just an artifact from icepack.
- Running without pulse. I suspect I'm missing a config bit I need for driving the global net.

## Next
- clear backlog!!
- Put tile next to genome and next to io pin, use global nets instead. This is sooo much easier than messing with the neigh net chain and will work across ram tiles
- Fix db connection in workflow tests
- Dynamic worker ip
- Stop procrastinating on tests
- Add a limit to how many times a device can reboot without receiving any results. Currently if a device reboots but an issue persists somehow, it will get stuck in a loop
- Handle external reservation ends gracefully like how failed devices are
- Dynamic ip, I think with docker its probably just fine to use hostname -I but I need to add a note in the readme to make it clear how to handle when it fails
- Add reboot event
- Invalidate generation results from device after reboot? This is really inefficient but I don't see a way to guarantee issues don't happen without the message system overhaul
- Considering moving to using exceptions
	- I've been doing a lot of stuff more c-style around this, since so much can go wrong it seems much cleaner to use if (stmt) rather than having try:except around every line. It's working well since I am aware of this, but I recognize that this not standard for python. 

[[work_log_jackson/2026-03-27|prev]] [[work_log_jackson/2026-03-29|next]]
