## Log
- Representation
	- I've been working on another genome representation to try to evolve in the smaller 3x30 tile areas without needing to do pin stuff yet. I enumerated all of the configuration options and can define a filter to block options rather than directly modifying the logic tiles. With this, I can filter out span routing and connections to spans that go outside of the genomes tile area. I have not yet tested this with bitstreamevo as I was traveling.
- Routing
	- Decided to try span routing. I found iceconfig.follow_net to do this. However, the amount of tiles I can reach seems to be suspiciously low. After the meeting I looked further into the follow_net function and it appears that it does not account for the routing config options. Since this does not require net name normalization I can pretty easily add it to my search path. After this is complete, all I will need to do is the io tile configuration. 
		- While looking at some of the generated circuits I noticed all of the span nets essentially become a global net because of the routing config option, as most of the spans become directly connected to each other. I think it would be interesting to experiment with disabling the routing option in the future. I suspect that this is a big driver of undefined behavior and effectively renders the span nets useless for multi circuit evolution - this relies on the assumption that the routing configuration uses direct connections rather than buffers, which I think would make sense with so many potential inputs.
## Next
- [ ]

[[work_log_jackson/2026-04-03|prev]] [[work_log_jackson/2026-04-07|next]]
