## Log
- Spent more time figuring out the circuit issue with the "remove changes until things start working" method. Turns out the ".comment from next-pnr" does *something*. I don't know anything about the bin representation but it seems to embed them as metadata? When the file is unpacked it just comes back as a empty .comment statement. Perhaps this comment is expected in the actual bitstream format.
	- Bitstream format does indeed mention a comment at the start
- I added the comment to the seed generator and the circuit now can be flashed without issue.
- Seed still doesn't create a pulse. First need to test that the io out is configured correctly. Should be able to replace the global net with a clock 
	- Going to create utils for adding stuff to existing circuit
- Debugging
	- Need to set the DffEnable flag for lut in order to use output
	- Need to clock lutff_global/clk
	```
	(*keep*) module top (
    input CLK,
    output ICE_27,
);
reg [1:0] counter;
reg out;

always @(posedge CLK) begin
    counter <= counter + 1;

    if (counter >= 1) begin
        out <= 1'b1;
        counter <= 2'b00;
    end else begin
        out <= 1'b0;
    end
end

assign ICE_27 = out;
endmodule

	```

- Seems global/s_r is not needed, I think the logic cell part is now properly configured.
- There's some additional configuration stuff not present in the io out. I was able to remove it and still get output when I was making the icefarm seeds, but I don't think I tested if it interfered with anything.
	- PINTYPE_0 is also enabled
	- cf_bit_39 (or a different one) is also enabled
	- Have not been able to find anything about what either of these do
- I suspect that the issues lies with the global net part
 - The cf_bit config is used to control the pullup strength, located in the ultraplus features docs
 - Some information about the PINTYPE options can be found in icebox_hlc2asc. There also seems to be some potentially useful utils in here. 
 - IoCtrl REN enable pull up resistor, IE bits enable input buffers
 - 1khz seed testing
	 - removed PINTYPE_0, pulses went to 0
- I tried for some time to replace the routing in the above snippet to use a global net instead of what was placed. My intention with this was to try the global net configuration with an already placed logic cell being used as a register, that way I know the logic cell and io stuff was set up properly. I wasn't able to get this to work though. 
	- After some thinking, I'm pretty sure this is just not possible. While I don't know the gate timings, having both the input and cell clock from the same global net probably just results in a constant output. Additionally, if it was possible to use the global clock net this way, I would imagine that this would have been done during pnr rather than the flip flop solution. It's important to consider however that yosys is designed for a collection of architectures, so this is not necessarily the case. Regardless, I think this method of testing is more trouble than it's worth.
- Next idea is to rather than use the global nets, put a passthrough logic gate between the genome area and the pin rather than configuring the global network. This will confirm whether the cell is set up properly. I also need to keep in mind that at some point it may actually be easier to use the logic cell passthrough as opposed to the global net, as I already have built up some tooling for that. 
	- The global nets do still kinda limit where circuits can be placed. I suspect that the logic cell method may actually be more useful.
## Next
- Expand logic tile setup to use passthrough for all logic cells
- Add global clock net and connect lutff/clk to it
- Set DffEnable logic bit
- Need to keep in mind for pathing that there are not too many genomes. Can probably just assign each a cell number rather than mixing routes together. My hope is that there are few enough collisions where they can be routed independently.

[[work_log_jackson/2026-03-28|prev]] [[work_log_jackson/2026-03-30|next]]
