## Log
- Readme changes
	- Looked at Brooklyn's obsidian, addressed issues
	- Moved client usage to docs folder since its intended as development docs rather than setup steps (TODO still need to fix issues with outdated stuff in it)
	- Started added additional details but got caught up with dockerhub thing
- dockerhub issue??
	- Was testing images after readme stuff, I'm receiving 0 pulses when using the images on dockerhub. Really stumped on this one. Originally thought maybe the website stuff changed something but all my local builds work fine with the changes, including after making a fresh copy of the repo. I get the same issue with the dev builds that have not been pushed for a week. Everything else appears to work fine, its just the pulses are always going to zero? For now just added a note not to use them. Noticed a warning in actions about node version being outdated now, don't think that would cause this problem though.
## Next
- icefarm setup stuff
	- Normal setup needs arm-none-eabi
	- Note that venv needs to be activate first
	- Double check client example
	- More info on -e install vs pip
	- More stuck worker section
	- Point to docs folder
	- Expected output 
	- Make clients unreserve on others ints than sig
	- Client usage
	- Mostly just doc issues, I need to do another fresh installation to get rid of any assumptions I am making. Change the signal handler from sigint for bitstreamevolution, as sometimes clients don't end reservations. Need to investigate how to catch the vscode debugger one.
- Put tile next to genome and next to io pin, use global nets instead. This is sooo much easier than messing with the neigh net chain and will work across ram tiles

[[work_log_jackson/2026-03-13|prev]] [[work_log_jackson/2026-03-17|next]]
