## Log
- fixed issue with disallowed tile routing
- location
	- x 9 25 y 14 26
- I think having the option to isolate circuits with the representation opens up a lot of possibilities for on board evaluation. The main benefit of this is that we could communicate the evaluation results using only a single pin for all circuits rather than having to be limited by the amount of available io pins.  
- Moved genome to a different area of the tile and connected to it with the pin routing. I was able to get pulses which confirms that the io tile routing is working, which is both exciting and surprising. Still need to do some stuff to ensure no outside connections:
	- Current representation config only checks for single depth of span connections. Need change this to ensure no longer connections are made (this only changes the initialization runtime so it's not going to balloon mutation time)
		- Same thing goes for io tile routing on restricted tiles/nets. I probably need to cache these.
	- Io routing only goes to until the circuit can connect to it, but this requires connections outside of the genome area. Need to think about this one for some time about how to best handle it. For now I just added the last few tiles in the span chain to allowed connections, but this is not a good long term solution since the span chain can be different between tiles.
		- I think I'll probably route the io chain to a local net in one of the genome tiles and then prevent that local net from being reconfigured. I don't like how this couples the representation configuration with the seed file itself, I'd much prefer evolution to make the connection as this would mean less configuration. However, I think having to connect to nets outside the genome area would both be a headache and result in a 2 rows/cols of wasted tiles around the circuit.
## Next
- [ ]

[[work_log_jackson/2026-04-08|prev]] [[work_log_jackson/2026-04-10|next]]
