## Log
- [ ]
## Next
- Issue with docker perms, EOF [[work_log_brooklyn/2026-04-26|2026-04-26]]
	- The EOF appears to be an issue with the docker daemon or resource constraints, the docker perms could be a potential app armor configuration. I don't think either of these are directly related to icefarm/bitstreamevo. 
- Devices stuck in flashing/await
	- Flashing is strange, should be a timeout on it. I think at some point it was broken, so it could be a version thing. Await can happen if the udev event is missed, need to add a periodic sweep for unknown devices. Notably unreserve/delete did not fix these issues, but the devices were added back. Perhaps the devices entered a broken state?
- Workspace permission issues
	- Check whether container mounting changes perms
+ Plot labels
+ 0 pulses from bitstreamevo
	+ This might be a config issue, check back next week

- Determine whether the spans on the ram/ipcon tiles can be used without having to enable to entire tile
- Clean up a few remaining raw bit manipulation things in router
- Remove hardcoded lutff0/out connection
	- Need to add to genome config to avoid disconnecting the /out -> local -> span connection, not sure the best way to do it. Probably return a filter function during routing to use with the user defined CF
- Move everything in routing repo to bitstreamevo
- Use global netnames from routing in cf

- Old stuff
	- Stop procrastinating on tests
	- Add a limit to how many times a device can reboot without receiving any results. Currently if a device reboots but an issue persists somehow, it will get stuck in a loop
	- Handle external reservation ends gracefully like how failed devices are
	- Dynamic ip, I think with docker its probably just fine to use hostname -I but I need to add a note in the readme to make it clear how to handle when it fails
	- Add reboot event
	- Invalidate generation results from device after reboot? This is really inefficient but I don't see a way to guarantee issues don't happen without the message system overhaul
	- Considering moving to using exceptions
		- I've been doing a lot of stuff more c-style around this, since so much can go wrong it seems much cleaner to use if (stmt) rather than having try:except around every line. It's working well since I am aware of this, but I recognize that this not standard for python. 

[[work_log_jackson/2026-04-24|prev]] [[work_log_jackson/2026-04-28|next]]
