## Log
- Fix device amount event formatting, probably using pre batch protocol
## Next
- icefarm setup stuff
	-Localhost with yaml issue
	- Normal setup needs arm-none-eabi
	- Make clients unreserve on others ints than sig
		- Vscode python debugger uses sigkill by default, requires configuration to not do this. Still can catch some other signals to make this work better, add instructions for configuring debugger to use sigint or term instead
- Put tile next to genome and next to io pin, use global nets instead. This is sooo much easier than messing with the neigh net chain and will work across ram tiles
- Make batchclient gracefully handle devices that are rebooting by not sending any new bitstreams
- Min amount of devices for experiment continuation when they fail
- Add reboot amout of tries to uplooadstate config
- Review stability changes, ensure that client has failsafe for detecting worker timeouts instead of only relying on control notification
- Fix db connection in workflow tests
- Dynamic worker ip
- Two design options for worker error detection:
	- Probably go with this one initially, quicker but introduces some redundancies.
		- Currently states can be configured to periodically send back results at a time interval
		- Modify BatchClient.AbstractBatchFactory to track when the last results have been received from a device. When this threshold has been passed and there are still evaluations queued in the device, begin recovery protocol.
		- Start by sending a reboot command to the device. If the initialization event is received shortly after, evaluations can continue without interruptions.
		- Modify returned results to use an Option instead. If the reboot does not succeed, end the reservation of the device and send back empty Options instead of the results. 
		- User can then choose how to handle these empty results. One path would be just to stop the experiment. Alternately, the failed evaluations could be sent to a different device and the broken device can be removed from future generations.
		- This solves all the current issues pretty easily but has some future design problems. This builds on the implementation of the BatchClient and UploadState interactions rather than the communication protocol itself. Future experiments that deviate from the "upload bitstream and args, do stuff, print results" style that UploadState provides. This shouldn't be an issue until way later down the line. I don't think this approach would take more than a few hours, so I would probably use this plan and then remove it for the better implementation later down the line.
	- This is the better design plan, but it requires a lot more work and doesn't seem to have an out of the box library for sending and receiving *multiple* responses, which would be required for status updates. It works by periodically sending a status for each ongoing request (high quantity stuff like evaluations would be sent in batches so no high network overhead, other stuff like reservation information would have the option to be sent out immediately). Since this involves modifying much of the current protocol, this would also provide the chance to improve some other issues I have with it. Not going over the specific implementation since its much more complex.
		- Currently, states can register json endpoints similar to a web server, and receive json formatted to the specification. The new system would have them register and receive request objects instead. In addition to the json data currently supplied, they would come with some additional methods.
		- First, they would have a confirmProgress type method. This would mark the request as "progress is being made, nothing bad out of the ordinary has happened". At periodic intervals the client will be sent a list of requests that are still being worked on, along with any that were not marked this way. The client can then properly handle requests that failed.
		- Currently, the state responds by sending a separate message using the DeviceEventSender. This is pretty messy as a id has to be passed along that was included in the request. Rather than doing this manually, a response method can be called on the Request object. In theory this should be able to be caught using await on the client socket after sending the request, but I'm not sure if it will work out because of the additional status methods required, as the await would need to be interrupted if something goes wrong. 
		- This also would provide the opportunity to fix some grievances with the current system:
			- Having to define the json endpoints in both the client and state is pretty annoying. After defining the request object in the state itself the client can just import that, the user initializes the request directly and there is no need for the redundant BaseClient classes that just define the server endpoints. The one downside of this method is that the icefarm.client module now depends on the icefarm.worker one.
		- From the client standpoint, failed commands would be seen the same way as the previous design.
		- Since this is built on top of the communication protocol, it provides error detection for all future clients/state regardless of UploadState usage. It also makes receiving data easier, as message ids would be tracked automatically. The old EventHandler architecture would still exist and be extensively used to implement the new communication protocol, but future additions would not have to use it as much; With the message response being routed back to the caller, a unique EventHandler is no longer needed for each send/receive endpoint. 

[[work_log_jackson/2026-03-17|prev]] [[work_log_jackson/2026-03-19|next]]
