## Log
- Fixed issue with reservations not being automatically extended
- Able to get current available devices in client
- Able to reserve specific device 
- Added ALL routing type, which removes row restraints
	- At some point I was looking into the connections tiles can make with our current routing options. It appeared that the current row/column restraint allowed for very few connections to be made between logic tiles, and I concluded that this was the reason I was unable to evolve anything without starting with something that already generates pulses - that's not to say that the io time configuration is still not an issue. I'm sure that there is a more optimal configuration, but my hope is that this will produce better results
	- This seems to be working very well so far; I've gone from a 1khz to 45khz targeting 40khz in 5 generations, also using columns 14-41
	- The extra mutations has caused the circuit generation time to vastly increase to about a second. This is longer than the evaluation time takes.
	- 0.5 fitness at epoch 13, this took 200 generations with moore routing and default columns during the first experiment
- BitstreamEvolution refactoring
	- I think at some point we want to make interface for messing with asc files. Right now I think FileBasedCircuit interfaces with them at too low of a level, but regardless, the mutation operation is pretty slow. I think that it is going to be worthwhile to make this in a lower level language, as mutation seems to be a significant bottleneck with the ALL routing.
	- I think the core issue is how we are currently handing the configuration. Right now, the configuration object is passed around to everything else, and those objects check specific configuration values before performing operations. This leads to a lot of if(value){do}elif(value){do}... code, resulting in massive classes and a lot of loose ends to check when modifying configuration parameters (see circuitpopulations selection methods). Instead, we should be applying a strategy pattern for most of these options when the high level objects are initially created.
- Added option in bitstreamevolution to evaluate on each device. Fitness is currently calculated by calculating it normally on each datapoint and taking the min
	- Going to run a test of this. I changed the fitness standard deviation to 0.05 so that lower pulse circuits would not register as 0.
## Next
- [ ]

[[work_log_jackson/2026-01-16|prev]] [[work_log_jackson/2026-01-20|next]]
