## Log
- Different neigh net for each logic cell
- Should be able to do all routing through neigh nets, need to figure out proper lut config to pass individual signals through. 
- Still need to research io tile stuff, not really sure how to select a pin
- Aside from the pin configuration, have enough knowledge to make a gui to define where routes for pin nets should go. 
	- While yosys seems to mostly use spans for them, io tiles also output cells to neigh nets which can be used by the logic tiles
	- Two pins on each io tilefk
	- Spreadsheet exists of pin to io 
- Not going to be able to use the same routing method over the ram tiles, would have to use spans. I think the best approach for a initial concept would be to ignore this problem and only route pins to genomes on the same tile third
- Chaining neigh nets is directional, only going to have output at first. Spans are the better implementation but it would take much longer to set up.
- Able to request specific serials in bitstreamevo config
- io tile mappings from chipdb, formatted pin, tilex, tiley, pionum for sg48
	- io tiles are really annoying since some of the config locations are on a different io tile than the one that contains the pin routing
	- Planning on generating a seed with io tile routing from verilog instead of doing this routing myself
	- Io tile are mapped to din wire of cell index mod 2. 
	- Was about to manually reroute the current seed file io tile to connect to logic tiles using a neigh net instead of a span and receive pulses 
	- For now just going to ignore the io tile to logic tile connection. It was easy enough to add it manually and it can always be done later. Mostly just need reliable way of knowing which local the tile is using. Could maybe use icebox_explain to do this but thats reallly hacky
- Tiles that can probably have a pin connection to rpi, not sure what io type we need. Pins so far have been dpio
	- ice / wire / pin / tile io
	- 27 / 38b / 27 (dpio) / 18 31
	- 19 / 29b / 19 (pio) / 21 0
	- 26 / 39a / 26 (dpio) / 18 31
	- 23 / 37a / 25 (dpio/i3c) / 18 31
	- 21 / 23b / 21 (dpio) / 18 0
	- 18 / 31b / 18 (pio) / 22 0
	- 9 / 16a / 9 (pio) / 15 0
	- 11 / 20a / 11 (pio) / 17 0
	- 25 / 36b / 25 (dpio/i3c) / 19 31
- Moved to using pin 21 and 9, as these are both facing the same way and not near ram. Should be able to use this layout in its current state to test the representation without having to do any further routing stuff, however, the circuits will be 2x30 so not too hopeful
	
## Next
- Routing plan
	- Input of genome tile sets, tile to 

[[work_log_jackson/2026-03-12|prev]] [[work_log_jackson/2026-03-16|next]]
