## Log
- Meeting notes for tomorrow: 
    - Github repos 
        - icefarm, helm, ascutil, bitstreamevolution
		- What to do about current BitstreamEvolutionPico repo?
    
    - Dockerhub/pypi organizations?
		- Dockerhub repo for icefarm images
	        - At some point going to add bitstreamevolution docker image 
		- icefarm, ascutil pypi packages
    
    - iCEFARM
        - Currently working on writing guides for making additions
        - Going move some readme stuff around
        - Currently just puting in random folder. Could be part of ehw website, but its really just docs - idk if this is the right place
    
    - BitstreamEvolution
        - On board with just using iCEFARM for now
        - Want to stress that using iCEFARM does not change the architecture of bitstreamevolution, its just another circuit implementation
        - Would probably take at most a couple of hours to adapt icefarm evaluation methods to bitstreamevolution and get it running. 
    
        - iCEFARM presents an chance to greatly improve testing coverage on bitstreamevolution. I already have a version of icefarm that applies a bunch of patches to emulate device behavior for running tests with github actions. Right now it just returns a constant amount of pulses, but we could do something like counting 1/0s instead.
        - Have not messed with it this yet, should I make a separate circuit implementation for icestick stuff or just remove it all?
    
    - Helm
        - Have not done anything with this for a while
        - Once we start running a big cluster of picos if we run into IO limitations switch to this. Not as fast to set up as compose but deployment essentially the same once setup
        - At some point want to improve logging with a notification system
    
    - ascutil 
        - Don't need to do anything with this as long as we use row/col +chance mutation 
## Next
- Simplify BatchRequest BaseClient facing interface 

[[work_log_jackson/2026-02-11|prev]] [[work_log_jackson/2026-02-13|next]]
