## Log
- dps and ipcon tiles now have ColBuff set
## Next
- Expand logic tile setup to use passthrough for all logic cells
	- This should be done using hlc2asc
- Add global clock net and connect lutff/clk to it
- Set DffEnable logic bit
- Need to keep in mind for pathing that there are not too many genomes. Can probably just assign each a cell number rather than mixing routes together. My hope is that there are few enough collisions where they can be routed independently.
- Only set ColBuff of tiles that use it, not sure if this is included in the icebox.tile bit config or need to parse chipdb. Also, colbuf needs to be enabled for dsp/ipcon tiles.
- Validation
	- Ensure all tiles have correct ColBuff configuration
	- Logic
		- Synth pulse generator circuit
		- Remove routing between pin
		- Use logic chain to create new connections
	- Pin
		- Synth pulse generator
		- Replace pin tile
	- Global
		- I think I'm going to abandon using this? It pretty much introduces the same location constraints that this is trying to solve in the first place, just provides slightly more potential locations
- Automatic logic chain pathing

<%*
const filename = tp.file.title; // e.g., "06_09_2025"
const filepath = tp.file.path(true); //get relative filepath work_log_isaac/2025-09-09.md
const parts = filepath.split('/');
parts.pop(); // removes the filename
const folder = parts.join('/');
const [year, month, day] = filename.split("-").map(Number);
const date = new Date(year, month - 1, day);
const dayOfWeek = date.getDay(); // 0 = Sunday, 1 = Monday, ..., 6 = Saturday
const prevDate = new Date(year, month - 1, day);
const nextDate = new Date(year, month - 1, day);

if ( dayOfWeek == 1 ) {
prevDate.setDate(date.getDate() - 3);
nextDate.setDate(date.getDate() + 1);
} else if ( dayOfWeek == 5 ) {
prevDate.setDate(date.getDate() - 1);
nextDate.setDate(date.getDate() + 3);
} else {
prevDate.setDate(date.getDate() - 1);
nextDate.setDate(date.getDate() + 1);
}

const pad = n => n.toString().padStart(2, '0');
const prev = `${prevDate.getFullYear()}-${pad(prevDate.getMonth() + 1)}-${pad(prevDate.getDate())}`;
const next = `${nextDate.getFullYear()}-${pad(nextDate.getMonth() + 1)}-${pad(nextDate.getDate())}`;
tR += `[[${folder}/${prev}|prev]] [[${folder}/${next}|next]]`;
-%>


- clear backlog!!
- Put tile next to genome and next to io pin, use global nets instead. This is sooo much easier than messing with the neigh net chain and will work across ram tiles
- Fix db connection in workflow tests
- Dynamic worker ip
- Stop procrastinating on tests
- Add a limit to how many times a device can reboot without receiving any results. Currently if a device reboots but an issue persists somehow, it will get stuck in a loop
- Handle external reservation ends gracefully like how failed devices are
- Dynamic ip, I think with docker its probably just fine to use hostname -I but I need to add a note in the readme to make it clear how to handle when it fails
- Add reboot event
- Invalidate generation results from device after reboot? This is really inefficient but I don't see a way to guarantee issues don't happen without the message system overhaul
- Considering moving to using exceptions
	- I've been doing a lot of stuff more c-style around this, since so much can go wrong it seems much cleaner to use if (stmt) rather than having try:except around every line. It's working well since I am aware of this, but I recognize that this not standard for python. 

[[work_log_kieran/2026-03-23|prev]] [[work_log_kieran/2026-03-25|next]]
