## Log
- The ice40 layout viewer groups nets into sets of supernets. The entire supernet a net belongs to is highlighted when it is hovered over. In the function that translates net names to supernet names, a -1 value is assigned when there are no connecting nets (might be some additional requirements too). This creates a problem where nets that are not connected to anything are assigned the same super value, so they all become highlighted together. 
	- The supernet that is actually used in the array lookup is uint32 max since it's cast right after the translate function return
	- This doesn't fully explain the issue since there are multiple strange sets of nets being highlighted. Given this and my knowledge of the hardware I'm pretty much all but certain that this is just an ice40 viewer bug.
- Lout buffers let lutff/in nets take src from two different buffers, this is what is causing debug output. Will remove this as a mutation option for now. In the future need to think of a way to add conditionals to mutation options.
	- This seems to have resolved all of the "floating" connections
- Some cross connections between routing areas
	- Seems that some of the buffer bits are being mutated on. There's a buffer located on the seed that is missing on one of the mutated circuits, replaced by one with the same configbit set. Guessing that config options are being parsed incorrectly somewhere as currently all buffers should be ignored.
	
## Next
- [ ]

[[work_log_jackson/2026-05-02|prev]] [[work_log_jackson/2026-05-04|next]]
