## Log
- GA thoughts
	- I don't think we have experimented enough with trying different operators. This will be much easier once we are able to run many experiments at once.
	- BitstreamEvolution specific thoughts 
		- I think that once we begin to run more experiments, we will want to have a  more modular approach to GA steps. 
		- I looked around a bit at python GA frameworks. There seems to be two main ones:
			- pyGAD, this seems to be a rather strict framework,  I think it will impose too many restrictions.
			- DEAP. This is less a framework and more a toolbox of utility methods. It may be worthwhile for its selection methods and management algorithms. We could use these without being dependent on the ecosystem.
	- Ideas
		- Scramble larger constructs than individual bits, such as luts and entire blocks. This could be done both during mutation and crossover
	- Survey
		- https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Stefano-Marsili-Libelli/publication/225642916_Adaptive_mutation_in_genetic_algorithms/links/0f31753484aa59ecd8000000/Adaptive-mutation-in-genetic-algorithms.pdf
			- High fitness individuals are more likely to be disrupted during mutation
			- Low fitness individuals are for exploratory purposes
			- Introduces inverse relationship between individual fitness and mutation chance.  
		- https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Yu-Xue-14/publication/352344604_Adaptive_crossover_operator_based_multi-objective_binary_genetic_algorithm_for_feature_selection_in_classification/links/61508689154b3227a8ae1e1c/Adaptive-crossover-operator-based-multi-objective-binary-genetic-algorithm-for-feature-selection-in-classification.pdf
			- Uses multiple crossover methods, evaluating their effectiveness and using them accordingly during evolution.
			- Not sure if this will work well with inconsistent fitness increases
		- https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC9019409/
			- Introducing chaotic noise to population when fitness does not increase over multiple generations.
	
## Next
- [ ]

[[work_log_jackson/2026-01-24|prev]] [[work_log_jackson/2026-01-26|next]]
