## Log
- Update on transfer experiments
	- I switched to cubed error instead of square error and this produced vastly better results. The main issue now is circuits are producing volatile evaluations on the same fpga, with about +/-20k pulses of variance on the final circuit across evaluations on the same fpga. The eventual best circuit did center at abound 40k, 50k, 60k on the three fpgas. I have not noticed this happening before on single fpga evolutions, but I will go back and check. My next approach is going to be to evaluate circuits multiple times on each fpga. I might add the variance measure back in but measure in groups of evaluations on the same fpga. When I did this across all fpgas previously it seemed to discourage exploration too much.
- Update on reservation bug
	- Unfortunately have not encountered this since adding additional logging. I now suspect that this issue occurs a client reconnecting immediately after a disconnect and reservation end. If the client disconnects before the reservation end is sent, it will remain in a queue for short period of time in case the client reconnects. The intended behavior is that when the client reconnects, these events would immediately be sent over. I've looked rather carefully and see no reason for this not to be happening, but this is currently the only explanation I have. When the 'reservation ending soon' event is later sent, the reservation end event that remained stuck in the queue is also sent with it. This would explain why it is sent seemingly out of nowhere, since logging happens when the event is queued to be sent rather than at send time. I've since added additional logging for when events are actually sent.
## Next
- Graphs broken with multiple devices
- BatchRequest changes
- Docs

[[work_log_jackson/2026-02-20|prev]] [[work_log_jackson/2026-02-22|next]]
