## Log
- Bitstreamevo multi circuit
	- Replaced circuitpop init with new representation, create seed at start of evolution
	- [ ] Changed Pulsecountclient evaluation wrapper to group circuits by pin
- Device appears to be able to brown out? Not completely sure what happens, but device goes unresponsive and led dims. Cause seems to be from very large interconnected spans
- Added extra pins to icefarm firmware and states but not yet able to get any pulses for some reason
	- Had switched to using a local -> span connection to outpin for consistent connections across genomes but it appears that I had been using span -> local instead and the former is not possible. Need to lutff/out -> span instead.
	- Seems at some point routing stopped working
		- With greater restrictions most of the routing is done through ipconf tiles, need to test with less restrictions
			- Ensure directional spans are okay
		- Could also be a result of the net target stuff
	- Bitstreamevo seed that worked did not use net target, need to keep in mind that it took more than 50 seeds to get a pulse.
## Next
- Create icebox patch for use as a module
- Allow pulsecount firmware pins to be configured
	- Need to modify general firmware to allow for args
	- I think Brooklyn improved the design at some point so also need to incorporate changes
- Change repr to allow for spans 
- Need to make sure that the directional span buffers are being used correctly
- Old stuff
	- Stop procrastinating on tests
	- Add a limit to how many times a device can reboot without receiving any results. Currently if a device reboots but an issue persists somehow, it will get stuck in a loop
	- Handle external reservation ends gracefully like how failed devices are
	- Dynamic ip, I think with docker its probably just fine to use hostname -I but I need to add a note in the readme to make it clear how to handle when it fails
	- Add reboot event
	- Invalidate generation results from device after reboot? This is really inefficient but I don't see a way to guarantee issues don't happen without the message system overhaul
	- Considering moving to using exceptions
		- I've been doing a lot of stuff more c-style around this, since so much can go wrong it seems much cleaner to use if (stmt) rather than having try:except around every line. It's working well since I am aware of this, but I recognize that this not standard for python. 
- Look into bitstreamevo issue: https://github.com/evolvablehardware/pRNA_obsidian/commit/955f9c7763fe35b799a0f163d5a95a2b3974a222

[[work_log_jackson/2026-04-17|prev]] [[work_log_jackson/2026-04-19|next]]
