## Log
### Progress on Explicit BRAM
Continued working on the explicit BRAM. My first main goal was to get multiple blocks working. I originally started with a generate for loop, but was having a lot of trouble with getting to synthesize correctly. I also realized this approach would not allow me to initialize each of the blocks with a different file.

With ChatGPT's help I wrote a python script (src_python/generate_bram_inst.py) that writes all the all the BRAM instantiations to a verilog header file. This header file is included in src_verilog/bram.v to control the explicit BRAM blocks. In the python script, I added in the ability to specify the number of blocks, the output file for the vhd, and the device used (to know which tiles are RAM tiles). This makes this implementation a lot more flexible, as compared to my previous implementation where every design was forced to use 16 EBRs.

```
usage: generate_bram_inst.py [-h] [--n N] [--d D] [--o O]

Generates a verilog header file with bram blocks

options:
  -h, --help  show this help message and exit
  --n N       The number of blocks to instantiate
  --d D       The device (i.e hx1k or up5k)
  --o O       Where to write the generated verilog header file to
```

I spent sometime testing and debugging the script. The only real tricky thing I had to deal with was figuring how to make the included verilog header file a parameter for the design. I was not able to use verilog parameters, but instead had to use macros and yosys's -D option

```verilog
`ifndef BRAM_INCLUDE_FILE
    `define BRAM_INCLUDE_FILE "default_rams.vh"
`endif

module bram(...);
	...
    `include `BRAM_INCLUDE_FILE
    ...
endmodule
```

```bash
yosys -q -D BRAM_INCLUDE_FILE="\"temp/controller_generated_rams.vh\"" -p 'synth_ice40 -json temp/controller.json' $(helper_verilog) src_verilog/controller.v src_verilog/integrated_memory_controller.v
```

I also tested this design with warmbooting and made sure everything was working.

I also noticed that sometimes the first address in each block *does* actually get initialized properly, and sometimes it doesn't. So, I don't think there's much I can do to actually solve this issue. I'm also not too worried about it, since the locations work fine if we write to them before read from them.

### Logic Cell Usage
While working on explicit BRAM, I noticed that my LC usage was much different from that of implicit BRAM. Below shows the device utilization for both controller approaches. There are some minor differences between each design besides that memory implementation, but nothing that should cause that big of a difference.

Explicit:
```nextpnr
Info: Device utilisation:
Info:            ICESTORM_LC:     458/   1280    35%
Info:           ICESTORM_RAM:      16/     16   100%
Info:                  SB_IO:       4/    112     3%
Info:                  SB_GB:       2/      8    25%
Info:           ICESTORM_PLL:       0/      1     0%
Info:            SB_WARMBOOT:       1/      1   100%
```

Implicit:
```nextpnr
Info: Device utilisation:
Info:            ICESTORM_LC:     233/   1280    18%
Info:           ICESTORM_RAM:      16/     16   100%
Info:                  SB_IO:       4/    112     3%
Info:                  SB_GB:       2/      8    25%
Info:           ICESTORM_PLL:       0/      1     0%
Info:            SB_WARMBOOT:       1/      1   100%
```

I'm not sure if we should just switch back to implicit BRAM and accept that the design is less flexible (i.e. every design needs to use all the EBRs). I think the main reason behind me exploring explicit BRAM this week was to prepare for doing explicit instantiation of SPRAM. And, if we're not warmbooting the memory controller with the ANN, then we want to use fewer LCs.

However, to the explicit BRAM approach uses fewer LCs when not all the blocks are used.
Explicit:
```nextpnr
Info: Device utilisation:
Info:            ICESTORM_LC:      90/   1280     7%
Info:           ICESTORM_RAM:       1/     16     6%
Info:                  SB_IO:       4/    112     3%
Info:                  SB_GB:       2/      8    25%
Info:           ICESTORM_PLL:       0/      1     0%
Info:            SB_WARMBOOT:       1/      1   100%
```
Implicit:
```nextpnr
Info: Device utilisation:
Info:            ICESTORM_LC:     196/   1280    15%
Info:           ICESTORM_RAM:      16/     16   100%
Info:                  SB_IO:       4/    112     3%
Info:                  SB_GB:       3/      8    37%
Info:           ICESTORM_PLL:       0/      1     0%
Info:            SB_WARMBOOT:       1/      1   100%
```

### Python Memory Changes
I didn't have enough time to get through all the changes I wanted to make today, but I modified my python code to handle having different hex files for each of the blocks, instead of having one big hex file (a change I had to make to support explicit instantiation of BRAM). I also started to add in the ability to specify a script to run to process the output of whatever image we're warmbooting the controller with.
## Next
- Finish quality-of-life improvements to the python code
- Start to implement SPRAM things
- Figure out BRAM bel names on the 5k device so that I can use them with my src_python/generate_bram_inst.py script

[[2025-07-16|prev]] [[2025-07-18|next]]
