## Log
### Differences between SPRAM and BRAM
Size
- SPRAM on UP devices: 4 x 256 kb = 128 Kbyte ([source, pg 1](https://pages.hmc.edu/brake/class/e155/fa23/assets/doc/FPGA-TN-02022-1-3-iCE40-SPRAM-Usage-Guide.pdf))
- BRAM on UP devices: 30 x 4kb = 15 Kbytes ([source](https://www.latticesemi.com/en/Products/FPGAandCPLD/iCE40UltraPlus))
- BRAM on 1k devices: 16 x 4kb = 8 Kbyte

Ports
- BRAM is dual port - so we can read and write to different locations at the same time
- SPRAM is single port - we can only do one operation at a time

Initialization
- BRAM blocks can be initialized with data
- SPRAM blocks cannot. This does mean we'll have to use some memory controller to write all of our initial NN params, but Chat GPT suggests that this will likely make it easier to preserve content while warmbooting.

Layout
- The [layout viewer](https://knielsen.github.io/ice40_viewer/ice40_viewer.html) does not appear to support UP5k bistreams with SPRAM tiles, and I couldn't figure out where the SPRAM blocks were going using nextpnr's  --placed-svg option
### Debug circuit
Started working on a circuit for the 1k devices that output the entire contents of BRAM, to be used as a debug tool for the warmbooting process. 

I first tested it on the hex data where each block is filled with a different value (i.e. 0000, 0101, ..., 0f0f), and saw that only 8/16 of the EBRs were being used, but the circuit worked as intended. When I tested it on the randomly generated data, all EBRs were used and the circuit still worked as intended. I was able to determine that yosys was determining how many EBRs were used. It's really not ideal that the initialization data can affect how the circuit is synthesized.

I discovered that adding the -noflatten option to yosys does stop the the number of memory blocks from being optimized ([yosys user guide](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wiki/jospicant/IceStudio/yosys_manual.pdf)). However, it also greatly increases the number LUTs used. New command:
```bash
yosys -p 'synth_ice40 -noflatten -json temp/debug.json' $(verilog_submodules) debug/debug_controller.v debug/top.v
```
With -noflatten:
```
Info: Device utilisation:
Info:            ICESTORM_LC:     257/   1280    20%
Info:           ICESTORM_RAM:      16/     16   100%
Info:                  SB_IO:       4/    112     3%
Info:                  SB_GB:       2/      8    25%
Info:           ICESTORM_PLL:       0/      1     0%
Info:            SB_WARMBOOT:       1/      1   100%
```
Without -noflatten:
```
Info: Device utilisation:
Info:            ICESTORM_LC:      76/   1280     5%
Info:           ICESTORM_RAM:       8/     16    50%
Info:                  SB_IO:       4/    112     3%
Info:                  SB_GB:       3/      8    37%
Info:           ICESTORM_PLL:       0/      1     0%
Info:            SB_WARMBOOT:       1/      1   100%
```

Another solution could be to go through the synthesis and pnr process with the random hex data so that all EBRs are instantiated, and then use icebram to switch out the BRAM data in the .asc file. Example usage (to be called after nextpnr and before icepack):
```bash
icebram data.hex custom_data.hex < temp/debug_random_data.asc > temp/debug.asc
```
General format:
```bash
icebram [from_hexfile] [to_hexfile] < [from_asc] > [to_asc]
```

However, I think the -noflatten approach might be needed when the secondary circuit doesn't use all the the EBRs. I think, no matter what data is used to init these blocks, if they are never used in the logic, yosys will not verify them. This normally would be fine, and make sense, but then we couldn't use our script to constrain the placement of the EBRs. There's probably some semi-hacky ways of getting around this in the verilog code. I also could probably write my own synth script for yosys that does everything the ice40 one does but doesn't call flatten on the memory. That seems like a big learning curve, even with the user guide, though. 

### Warmbooting the debug circuit and memory controller
The first attempt I had at warmbooting together produced gibberish (i.e. the data output by the debug circuit did not match any locations in the data file). However, when I run a prepack script during pnr for both circuits, things work as expected. I confirmed that it works with both the random data, and when we use icebram to switch to the data where each block stores a value. 

Pre-pack script (I wrote it [[work_log_allyn/2025-07-10|last Thursday]], but didn't really talk about it):
```python
# generate list of all relevant BELS
placements = []
for x in [3, 10]:
	for y in [1, 3, 5, 7, 9, 11, 13, 15]:
		placements.append(f"X{x}/Y{y}/ram")

for cell, cinfo in sorted(ctx.cells, key=lambda x: x.first):
	# only constrain ram cells
	if cinfo.type == "ICESTORM_RAM":
		# extract index from the instantiation
		# format: bram_inst.memory.0.[INDEX]_RAM
		index = int(cell.split('.')[3].split('_')[0])
		# bind cell to bel of the given index
		ctx.bindBel(placements[index], cinfo, PlaceStrength.STRENGTH_STRONG)
```

How to run nextpnr so that the placement constraints are applied:
```bash
nextpnr-ice40 --hx1k --package tq144 --asc temp/debug_random_data.asc --json temp/debug.json --pcf controller.pcf \
--pre-place src_python/pre_pack.py \
--post-route src_python/get_bram_locations.py > temp/debug_bram_placement.txt
```
The post-route script saves where the BRAM blocks actually got placed so we can verify they are what we wanted. 

### TLDR
- SPRAM provides a lot more memory than BRAM, and must be initialized with logic, meaning it has a lower chance of being overwritten during reboot. There's also fewer blocks, so we have to worry less about placement constraints.
- For simple datafiles, yosys will optimize out some EBRs (ie by recognizing the first and lasr byte of each location is the same). We can get around this by using the -noflatten option, or intiing with a random data file and using icebram to swap to the simple file.
- Warmbooting with the memory controller works as intended when all 16 EBRs are used by the secondary circuit and placement constraints are appplied using nextpnr's prepack script option.
## Next
- Combine the memory controller with a different circuit using warmbooting
	- Figure out how to warmboot with circuits that don't use all their BRAM. I need to confirm this is not possible unless yosys thinks all the blocks are being used. If that is the case, there are 2 solutions I can think of:
		- Use hacky methods in the verilog to get yosys to think the blocks are being used
		- Customize the synth process so that just the memory avoids being optimized
- Start to develop memory controllers for SPRAM 
- Clean up my repo now that I have a better idea of what's going on

- Figure out how to use the FPGA to modify the SPI flash in cases where we're not just modifying the BRAM
- Further iceprog optimizations
	- Being able to specify a list of bitstreams to upload, with a hold time for evaluation, so that we only have to init the FTDI once

[[2025-07-11|prev]] [[2025-07-15|next]]
