## Log
### Getting Brooklyn's Repo Set Up
I went through the process of setting Brooklyn's BitstreamEvolutionPico repo set up while waiting on hardware.

I did run into a couple of issues:
- I didn't have my ssh key configured properly when I first tried to init the submodules. This caused an error, but after I had sorted out my authentication, git thought all the submodules had been init, and rerunning the command wasn't doing anything. I had to delete the repo from my device and clone it again.
- When setting up picotool, it says to run `cmake -DPICO_SDK_PATH=../../../lib/pico-ice-sdk/lib/`. I had to add the argument `-DCMAKE_POLICY_VERSION_MINIMUM=3.5`. I think this might because I have a more recent version of cmake than the one provided by apt. 
- I needed to make sure I ran `sudo apt install gcc-arm-none-eabi` before I ran `make -C lib/micropython/ports/rp2 submodules`
### Improving Install Script
I started looking at ways to improve Booklyn's install script and make it less clunky. I looked at combining cmake and git submodules, but I'm not sure if that's the route to go. I'm not too familar with cmake, but I don't think it makes sense to use it unless we'e also trying to compile code.

I tried looking online for other people dealing with duplicated nested submodules. I found these: [link 1](https://softwareengineering.stackexchange.com/questions/114719/organizing-git-repositories-with-common-nested-sub-modules), [link 2](https://softwareengineering.stackexchange.com/questions/452337/how-to-handle-nested-submodule-dependencies), [link 3](https://www.reddit.com/r/git/comments/tnq88r/mutual_submodules_between_repos_when_one_becomes/). The general suggestion seemed to be to try and avoid nested submodules or just be fine with the duplication. However someone also suggested using symbolic links, which is what we're currently doing, so I feel comfortable continuing to do that. 

I worked on taking Brooklyn's list of commands in the readme and turning it into a make file. I think I made good progress, but I'm not really sure how to test everything is set up correctly. Additionally, if something goes wrong during the process, I couldn't find a way to reset the submodules once they had been init. I ended up removing the repo from my computer and starting from scratch each time I wanted to test a change to the makefile. I think I ended with something that works, but it seemed to take less time than the original script, and I'm not sure why that would be. I tried to look through some of the folders and make sure all the files were there, but that's not really a foolproof way of testing that everything is correct.
## Next
- Finish up makefile for Brooklyn's repo (hopefully including an easy way to reset submodules)
- Spend time going through the icepico examples
- Start to implement SPRAM things
- Figure out BRAM/SPRAM bel names on the 5k device so that I can use them with my src_python/generate_bram_inst.py script


[[2025-07-18|prev]] [[2025-07-22|next]]
