## Log
### More work on Warmbooting BRAM
Instead of using a random datafile, I instead created a custom file where the data is different for each block (Block 0 has data 0000, Block 1 has data 0101, ..., Block 15 has data 0f0f). The data made a bit more sense here. Currently in the demo, I have the address increment linearly, and the block is the bottom 4 bits of the address. So, the data output should look like 
```
[0000 0101 0202 ... 0f0f] repeated
```
Instead, I get
```
b'\x00\x01\x02\x03\x00\x01\x02\x03\x00\x00\x00\x00\x01\x01\x01\x01\x00\x01\x02\x03\x00\x01\x02\x03\x00\x00\x00\x00\x01\x01\x01\x01'
```
There is definitely a pattern, but it's unclear why 0000 and 0101 repeat. I suspect it has something to do with yosys only inferring 4 EBRs, so I will have to figure out why that is happening. We might need to trying explicitly instantiating BRAM again. I also want to design a circuit that will output the entire contents of BRAM to serial interface to use as a testing tool. 

I then tried warmbooting two memory controllers together. One rewrites BRAM every time it is programmed, while the other does not. Everything worked fine. I tested that writes on the first image carried over to the second image, and that everything is reset when we switch from the second image to the first. This gives me hope that retaining BRAM while warmbooting is at least possible. 

### Measuring Warmbooting Time
I modified my original warmbooting demo to only include two images (with a different number of LEDs). I also added another output wire that is set differently by the two images. 

My arduino code now records the start time (in microseconds) when we start to warmboot. I attached an interrupt to the new output that records the time whenever that wire changes during the warmboot process. I then can look at the time between the start time and the time of the last change to get an estimate of how long warmbooting takes. It seems to be consistently around 32.6 ms:
```
Began serial
Switching to leds2.v
Elapsed time: 32604 microseconds
Switching to leds1.v
Elapsed time: 32612 microseconds
Switching to leds2.v
Elapsed time: 32592 microseconds
Switching to leds1.v
Elapsed time: 32600 microseconds
Switching to leds2.v
Elapsed time: 32596 microseconds
Switching to leds1.v
Elapsed time: 32576 microseconds
```
## Next
- Combine the memory controller with a different circuit using warmbooting
	- Figure out placement constraints or figure out alternative approach
	- Figure out what stops yosys from inferring EBRs, or why they are being optimized out
	- Play around more with explicitly instantiating BRAM
	- Design a circuit that outputs its entire BRAM to the serial lines
- Look into how to use SPRAM on the 5k devices, and how it differs from BRAM
- Figure out how to use the FPGA to modify the SPI flash in cases where we're not just modifying the BRAM
- Further iceprog optimizations
	- Being able to specify a list of bitstreams to upload, with a hold time for evaluation, so that we only have to init the FTDI once

[[2025-07-10|prev]] [[2025-07-14|next]]
