## Log
### Implementation/Testing Plan
1. Confirm the FPGA can use the the SPI as general purpose memory and IO after it has been programmed using the SPI memory ([using this demo](https://github.com/damdoy/ice40_ultraplus_examples/tree/master/flash) to read values in from the flash that were written during configuration.)
2. Use the PC to write to the flash during operation by using methods from [iceprog](https://github.com/YosysHQ/icestorm/blob/master/iceprog/iceprog.c). If we can write, we should be able to read, so this should not be difficult to verify. 
3. Figure out how to use warm booting load two circuits that can switch to each other. Ideally, the swapping should be controlled by some signal from the PC or MCU, but I also have some push buttons to use while we're still early in development. The two circuits could light up the FPGA's LEDs in different ways so that we can confirm they're actually swapping back and forth. 
4. Use the PC to overwrite part of the second circuit's bitstream. Verify the changes went through correctly before swapping to the circuit. The changes could be something like modifying which LEDs get lit up.
5. Confirm we can swap back to circuit 1 from circuit 2, even after circuit 2 has been modified.
6. Figure out how to warm boot more than 4 images using the information in [[umarcor2021]].
7. Integrate bitstream patching with the expanded warm booting.
8. Benchmark whether its faster to warm boot just two circuits - a controller and an evolved bitstream (less large memory moves, but more patches), or many circuits (many large memory swaps done on-chip, but fewer patches).

## Next
- [ ]

[[2025-06-11|prev]] [[2025-06-13|next]]
