## Log
I cleaned up the makefile and the repo a bit after all my debugging from the past few days.

---
I started playing around with warmbooting the memory controller with a circuit that doesn't use all the blocks of BRAM. I still got gibberish out when there was less than 16 blocks inferred by yosys. However, I figured out that we could put an atrribute on our memory module that would prevent yosys from optimizing it:
```verilog
(* keep_hierarchy = 1 *)
bram #(.NUM_BLOCKS(16), .FILE("temp/data.hex")) bram_inst (
...
);
```
It does increase the number of LCs used though.

Without the attribute:
```
Info: Device utilisation:
Info:            ICESTORM_LC:      86/   1280     6%
Info:           ICESTORM_RAM:       8/     16    50%
```

With the attribute, the number of LUTs more than doubles:
```
Info: Device utilisation:
Info:            ICESTORM_LC:     196/   1280    15%
Info:           ICESTORM_RAM:      16/     16   100%
```
It is possible this is just due to the logic needing to cover more of the board to reach all the logic tiles, and not nay missed optimizations. Additionally, as we only need to do this when warmbooting, we should have plenty of LUTs for an image just containing the memory controller. 

I spent some time more thoroughly testing this implementation, to make sure it was all working as expected.  

So, this now provides up with a general way of warmbooting with a memory controller. The only thing that will need to change from circuit to circuit is the preplace script, based on the names of the bram instantiations in the secondary circuit. 

---
I started planning how I will go about simulating explicit BRAM. However, I don't think iverilog will know how to interpret `SB_RAM40_4K`, as that is an architecture specific macro. As such, I might not be able to simulate explicitly instantiated BRAM. 
## Next
- Simulate explicitly instantiated BRAM and see if I can get that working
- If I can, I should testbench explicit and implicit BRAM (they should be the same)
- Prune down the number of LUTs in the memeory controller so it can more easily fit alongside a NN
- Modify the memory controller to also handle SPRAM
- Benchmark SPRAM vs BRAM operations
- Modify the SPI flash from within the FPGA fabric
- Further iceprog optimizations
	- Being able to specify a list of bitstreams to upload, with a hold time for evaluation, so that we only have to init the FTDI once
Those are mostly ordered by priority

[[2025-07-14|prev]] [[2025-07-16|next]]
