## Derek requested tasks backlog
1. email to RHIT confirming budget OK. Subject: "PRNA Project - Budget adjust to pay for hardware?"
	* follow up - Order picos after confirming email with RHIT about budget reallocation
2. Question about potential for employment for graduates (IM)
	* odds of position available? how soon would you expect to have the ability to offer if so?
3. Request Milestone changes with ARI
	* drafted email can be shared for Derek to send to ARI for requesting amendments
4. File Certification of Completions with Derek's signature for M1-M3
	* Should be sent only after amendment of milestones is accepted
	* Prefilled and dated for 9/16/2025 to sign during tomorrow's meeting
5. Discuss ideas for the final report deliverable for Vivum that I could start planning now:
	* website - expand and report on demonstration and configuration
	* academic paper - updated experiments
## Goals
* order 20 picos after confirming with Derek
* make sure each student has clear guidance on a task
* Jackson - awaiting Squid release
* Kieran - testing accuracy of pico for pulse counting 
* Sandya - measuring time to read/write memory controller from pico to ice40
	* requiring running code on pico that interacts with the ice40
* Brooklyn
	* writing to the pico memory from usb
* Isaac
	* cocotb test bench
	* python refactor
## Log
- Provide guidance on IP over USB, deep research prompt to get some ideas of the landscape of possibilities for Jackson: 
	- https://chatgpt.com/share/68c843d8-cf04-8011-8b56-19910329f089
* Provide starting guidance for Kieran for testing the picos pulse counting accuracy:
	* https://chatgpt.com/share/68c84b04-9450-8011-9eac-947869dd28be
* Provide starting guidance to Sandya for collecting timing data on using the memory controller: 
	* https://chatgpt.com/share/68c84b7f-bc84-8011-a552-40da0cacdcc9
	* code added in code work_log_jason/code (just open system explorer, obsidian wont display the code itself)
## Next
- Try to move through the Derek backlog as much as possible during the meeting tomorrow
- Discuss timeline for backlog items that we cannot address during the meeting
	- set goals to finalize backlogs before I depart for Japan

[[work_log_jason/2025-09-12|prev]] [[work_log_jason/2025-09-16|next]]
