## Log
- I made more progress on the website and I spent a lot of time figuring out how to structure the website. 
- I asked Dr. Yoder about what information we should add and I reproduced the email below.

The “\*” icon before a page means that it will be repeated multiple times for instances of a very similar thing.

Website Structure:

- Home: A landing page explaining the basics of the Evolvable Hardware group and helping to guide different audiences to use the site to best fit their needs.
- Projects: Highlight projects we are working on that people can investigate
	- \*Project Name: A brief overview of the project, featuring a link to the project’s website. Potentially also linking to similar projects or relater papers.
- Resources: A bunch of resources to help people understand and use what we do.
	- Concepts Used: A repository of a bunch of useful general concepts that we would use or refer to. May link to papers or books.
	- Tools Used: A repository of the tools we use throughout our projects
	- \*Tool name: describe the tool & use in a generic way consistent across all projects
		- referance_sheet.md - a printable/link to a printable sheet with basic usage commands and advice, highly summarized
		- docs.md (or folder) - Links to the docs and explanation/guidance for using the docs (& Tips&Tricks)
		- project_use.md - Note which projects use them and roughly how. (Very high-level overview.)
		- tutorials.md (or folder) - Includes or links to tutorials (Text or video) that could guide adoption.
	- Related Publications: Publications useful in understanding this work, but not a direct result of it
		- \*publication name: brief overview of the publication that notes how it relates to our work.
	- Our Publications: (rename “EHW Publications”?) Links to next section “publications”
- Publications: details papers that are a direct result of our work. This may have greater organization and sub-directories than is described here, but I have not thought through that yet
	- \*publication name: same as in related publications. Limited explanations about how to reproduce results, link to the appropriate repository page for that information.
- News: describe recent events and papers that have been produced by the group
	- \*year: archive these events that occurred in this year long-term
- About: More detailed explanation of what this group is and what it is generally trying to do.
	- History: describe the history of evolvable hardware
- Contact Us: how people can get involved or contact the group of other reasons.

Questions:

1. Does the “Projects” folder seem like a good way to organize projects? Bitstream evolution, etc…
2. How should we suggest people get involved and contact us?
3. Does the breakdown of Related Publications and Our Publications highlight our work while making it easy enough to find important related work?
	1. Do you have a list of papers that I should include in either of these sections?
4. Do you expect the Tools Used structure to make sense and work?
5. Do you like the structure of having each github project have its own website that it can control and kicking out most specific information in that direction?
6. Do you like the Concepts section? Can you think of anything we should put there? Are there existing resources you would suggest?
7. Do you have an idea of what we should fill up the “About” section with, or more details about the story of the history we want to tell?
## Next
- Implement Dr. Yoder's suggestions, get the website to a passable state
- Work on finishing code reorganization from last year.

[[work_log_isaac/2025-10-22|prev]] [[work_log_isaac/2025-10-24|next]]
